---
layout: page
title: CrimePredict
description: Predicting future crime hotspots using advanced machine learning models.
img: assets/img/2025w-crime-hotspots.png
importance: 1
category: 2025 Winter
related_publications: false
---
- **Master Project by Jyotshna Nallabothula**

CrimePredict is an innovative project aimed at leveraging historical crime data to forecast the likelihood of future criminal activities in specific areas. By utilizing cutting-edge machine learning techniques like Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks, this project aspires to assist law enforcement and urban planners in identifying high-risk areas and proactively curbing criminal activities.

### Project Overview

Using historical crime data, CrimePredict builds a model that analyzes patterns, trends, and spatial-temporal correlations to predict the probability of crimes in a given location. This project highlights the application of artificial intelligence to solve real-world societal challenges and demonstrates the potential of data-driven approaches in promoting public safety.

### Objectives

1. **Data Analysis**: Analyze historical crime data to identify trends and patterns.
2. **Model Development**: Explore and implement advanced machine learning techniques such as GNNs and LSTMs to predict future crime hotspots.
3. **Impactful Insights**: Provide actionable insights to assist in crime prevention and resource allocation.
4. **Hands-On Experience**: Equip Jyotshna with expertise in applying machine learning to real-world problems.

